INSTRUCTIONS.md, before:

# Instructions for using the Titanic Survivors Jupyter Notebook

This repository contains two sets of artifacts, dependent upon whether you want to use an Amazon SageMaker (Or SageMaker Studio) Notebook instance, 
or whether you would prefer to use the Free Amazon SageMaker Studio Lab.

The latter is a free resource, but has several restrictions, including the fact that it is more difficult to call the AWS APIs. 
If you do call these APIs, then they are chargeable to your AWS account. So in the spirit of 'keep it free", 
the notebook for SageMaker Studio Lab makes use of SKLearn APIs rather than AWS APIs.

This document consists of the following sections:

- Background Scenario - sets the background and tells the story which you will demonstrate
- Demo Notes: using Amazon SageMaker or SageMaker Studio - this requires a full AWS account and Jupyter notebook instance.
- Demo Notes: using Amazon SageMaker Studio Lab - this just requires a free Amazon SageMaker Studio Lab account. You do not need an AWS account.

## Background Scenario


## Demo Notes: using Amazon SageMaker or SageMaker Studio

### Setup

### Demo


### Cleanup


## Demo Notes: using Amazon SageMaker Studio Lab


### Setup

### Demo


### Cleanup

Commit message:

How to use these demo resources
How to use these resources to demonstrate basic machine learning concepts.

INSTRUCTIONS.md, after:

# Instructions for using the Titanic Survivors Jupyter Notebook

This repository contains two sets of artifacts, dependent upon whether you want to use an Amazon SageMaker (Or Amazon SageMaker Studio) Notebook instance, 
or whether you would prefer to use the Free Amazon SageMaker Studio Lab.

The latter is a free resource, but has several restrictions, including the fact that it is more difficult to call the AWS APIs. 
If you do call these APIs, then they are chargeable to your AWS account. So in the spirit of 'keep it free', 
the notebook for SageMaker Studio Lab makes use of SKLearn APIs rather than AWS APIs.

This document consists of the following sections:

* [Background Scenario](#background-scenario) - sets the background and tells the story which you will demonstrate. This applies whichever of the two demo approaches you wish to use.
* [Demo Notes: using Amazon SageMaker or SageMaker Studio](#demo-notes-using-amazon-sagemaker-or-sagemaker-studio) - this requires a full AWS account and Jupyter notebook instance. This makes full use of AWS Managed Services, and would be chargeable. This would be more relevant for commercial customers of AWS.
* [Demo Notes: using Amazon SageMaker Studio Lab](#demo-notes-using-amazon-sagemaker-studio-lab) - this just requires a free Amazon SageMaker Studio Lab account. You do not need an AWS account. The Amazon SageMaker Studio Lab service is entirely free, although it does have some technical limitations compared with the full SageMaker, above. This would be more relevant to people interested in Machine Learnging from an academic or hobby perspective.

## Background Scenario

These notebooks are based on the dataset in OpenML at https://www.openml.org/d/40945 - This data set contains the survival status, age, gender, and class (which serves as a proxy for economic status) of passengers aboard the maiden voyage of the RMS Titanic in 1912. this dataset is not included here. You need to download this dataset yourself.

When demonstrating Machine Learning, it is very easy to introduce academically interesting data sets, without relating the results back to anything that the ordinary student can identify with. That is the reason for using this 'Titanic Survivors' dataset and presenting it in this way. 

The reason for choosing this dataset is as follows:
- The story of the Titanic is reasonably well known, and there is real data about the survivors. This means we could train a machine learning model to learn how to predict which passengers would survive the disaster. 
- We can test this model by passing it data on real-world people who were actually on the Titanic, and see what the model predicts. This is more engaging than just using data, since we can find out about the actual biography of a person, before passing their details to the model to create a prediction.
- In order to make this more engaging, we have added two other individuals from the film "Titanic". This is a fictional story. However, since we have biographical backgrounds to these fictional characters, we can pass their data to the model, to see if the result of the fictional film would align with the real events.

I hope you will enjoy using this resource to teach basic Machine Learning concepts to your students.

## Demo Notes: using Amazon SageMaker or SageMaker Studio

### Setup

How to set up

### Demo

How to do the demo.

### Cleanup

Things to clean up afterwards.

## Demo Notes: using Amazon SageMaker Studio Lab


### Setup

How to set up

### Demo

How to do the demo.

### Cleanup

Things to clean up afterwards.
